So far, we've discussed
different incident types
and the importance of escalating
those incidents to
the right person.
But what happens if an incident
goes unescalated for too long?
In this video, we'll discuss
the potential impact that
even the smallest
incident can have on
an organization, if it goes
unnoticed. Are you ready?
Great! Now let's take a journey
into a day in the life of an
organization's security team.
It's been a quiet day
for the security team.
Suddenly, you notice
there's been
unusual log activity in an app
that was recently banned
from the organization.
You make a note to mention
this activity during
the next meeting with
your supervisor.
But you forget, and
never mention it.
Following this same scenario,
let's fast forward
to a week later.
You and your supervisor
are meeting again.
But now, the supervisor
indicates that a data
breach has occurred.
This breach has impacted one of
the manufacturing sites
for the organization.
Now, all operations at
the manufacturing site
have been put on hold.
This causes the company to
lose money and precious time.
Days later, the security team
discovers that the data breach
began with suspicious
activity in
the app that was recently
banned from the organization.
What we've learned from
this scenario is that
a simple incident can lead to
a much larger issue, if
not escalated properly.
Incident criticality is also
important to note here.
Initially an incident can be
escalated with a medium
level of criticality if
the analyst doesn't
have enough information
to determine the amount of
damage done to the organization.
Once an experienced
incident handler
reviews the incident,
the incident may be increased or
decreased to a high or
low criticality level.
Every security incident you
encounter is important
to an organization,
but some incidents are certainly
more urgent than others.
So, what's the best way to determine
the urgency of a
security incident?
It really depends on the asset
or assets that the
incident affects.
For example, if an employee
forgets their login password
for their work computer,
a low-level security
incident may be
prompted if they have repeated
failed login attempts.
This incident needs
to be addressed,
but the impact of this
incident is likely minimal.
In other instances, assets are
critical to an organization's
business operations,
such as a manufacturing plant
or database that stores PII.
These types of assets need to be
protected with a higher
level of urgency.
The impact of an
attacker gaining
unauthorized access to a
manufacturing application
or PII is far greater than
a forgotten password,
because the attacker
could interfere with the
manufacturing processes
or expose private
customer data.
I hope this video has helped you
understand the importance of
knowing the relationship between
assets and security incidents.
Later in this
course, we'll share
some new concepts related to
escalation timing
and why your role
in that process matters.